movie opens with a gruesome murder scene
a man walks in on his wife with her
lover and goes berserk on them
though we quickly realized that this
disjointed montage of events is no more
than a vision
a vision dreamt up by a strange person
floating in a tub of water
we meet our protagonist john at the
pre-crime department
you see what we actually saw was a crime
that is yet to happen
these pre-crimes are dreamt up by
clairvoyant humans known as precogs
the crime is set to take place in less
than half an hour the man
and future murderer is seen picking up
mail but he notices a strange man
watching and waiting outside
he remarks to his wife that he looks
awfully familiar but can't quite
pinpoint where he's seen him before
meanwhile john is reviewing the
pre-crime vision to try and determine
where exactly the murder takes place
using some fancy gloves and a high-tech
computer john and his partner shift
through the footage and determine the
exact identity and location of the
future perpetrator
uh-oh not so fast looks like that
location doesn't even exist anymore
john gets back to business with only 13
minutes left on the clock
an investigator danny from the feds
shows up and pokes around to see how
things are going
fletcher speaks with him and reveals
some exposition about the precocks
apparently they're able to see crimes up
to four days out however
this upcoming crime is one of passion so
there's no premeditation
in fact they rarely see premeditated
murders anymore
the pre-crime system has been working
wonders anyway
jon uses his deductive skills to notice
that one of the kids in the background
must be on a merry-go-round
the crime takes place near a park they
narrow down the locations and head over
to the most likely spot
only six minutes remain they drop in
ready to attack but there's a problem
all the houses look the damn same tick
tock time is running out
john checks in with his partner about
whether or not the front door was left
open
it was he dashes towards the door as the
perpetrator prepares to kill his wife
and her lover john and his crew storm in
arresting the man for the murders he
almost committed
back at the station dany notices the
precogs are still in distress
chad one of the technicians explains
that sometimes they see echoes of the
same crime
an occasional anomaly that is quickly
deleted a small advertisement plays
about pre-crime
so far it's only being tested out in
washington dc but citizens are set to
vote on its expansion very soon
afterwards we see jon restlessly running
in the middle of the night he stops by a
mysterious man and purchases a small
device containing what's known as
clarity
some kind of substance at his house he
replays an old recording of his son
before taking a hit of clarity and
watching one of his wife
poor guy the next day john heads back to
the department and lamar the head of
pre-crime
tells him to keep a close eye on the
investigator danny voting is coming up
soon so they best make sure everything
is tipped up
we see dany doing some more snooping
around he demands to get closer to the
precogs but jon declines
cops are not allowed in after a brief
dick measuring contest
danny pulls out a warrant and reveals
that he has the authority to investigate
whatever he pleases
they walk into what is affectionately
known as the temple which is where the
precogs are housed
the female one is named agatha and the
twins go by arthur and dash
they're left suspended in a
nutrient-rich liquid that both feeds
them and enhances their clairvoyant
visions
dany remarks on the divine qualities of
their nature john asks him what he's
looking to find in an irritated tone
the system may be perfect but there's
always human error
dany walks off and john locks an
inquisitive gaze on agatha
he tries to get a reaction out of her to
no avail
just kidding she lunges at him grabbing
him and whispering in his ear
john looks up and watches a murder
taking place strange thing is
the precogs aren't even supposed to be
aware of their surroundings
while he gets agatha settled back in as
jon proceeds to investigate what she
showed him he heads over to the
pre-crime prison where the eccentric
guard named gideon assist him with his
search
conveniently there haven't been all too
many drownings since pre-crime was
established
despite being captured we learned that
the murderer was never identified
he underwent a black market procedure to
switch his eyes out with someone else to
avoid retinal scans
something else is wrong agatha's data
stream is missing generally
each precog has their own rendition of
events and they're all recorded and
saved
apparently glitches come in pairs
because the woman that was supposed to
be murdered
and lively is listed as missing
something fishy is happening here
john saves a copy of the day stream and
speaks to lamar he explains him that
there are at least a dozen more cases
with missing data streams
but lamar quickly changes the subject to
john's wife lara
she's worried about him and so is lamar
the loss of his son
sean weighs heavy on him pre-crime is
going national soon and jon needs to
stay strong
unless they take it away from him
they're not gonna take it away from us
meanwhile danny is snooping around in
john's place he finds the clarity he's
been taking and watches over one of his
recordings of sean
daddy's in a lot of trouble what a jerk
the next day
john is reviewing another pre-murder
case interestingly this one is
premeditated and set to happen in 36
hours from now
he remarks on how stupid someone must be
to follow through with the premeditated
murder these days
the victim leo crow is shot through a
window some of the clues jon spots are a
laughing old woman
the number six and nine and a man and
glasses watching from outside the window
oh well this is awkward that's john he's
the murderer
no that can't be right he doesn't even
know who leo crow is
he quickly minimizes the screen and asks
his crew member chad
to grab a snack while he buys time
unfortunately wally saw everything
but he likes john he gives him a two
minute head start before sounding the
alarm
as john makes a run for it he runs into
danny in the elevator you're in a lot of
trouble john
you set me up john shouts he's adamant
he's not a murderer and so continues to
flee
he gets in his fancy self-driving car
and hightails it out of there
calling lamar along the way lamar sides
with jon and reassures him that
everything will be okay
he can even come to his house john's car
begins to reverse direction
back towards the station they've taken
it over lamar advises him not to run
but john kicks out one of the doors and
proceeds to hop over cars like he's in
some kind of mobile game
he jumps to safety ah finally some
normalcy
meanwhile fletcher meets with lamar
stating he'll bring back jon unharmed
dany barges in and demands he takes
control of the operation lamar objects
danny questions lamar reminding him that
jon came to speak with him
just before he was tagged as a
pre-murderer lamar covers for john but
submits to danny
only requesting that jon is not hurt
john heads over to a subway but not
before getting retinal scanned
damn the future is scary the pre-crime
crew closes in on his location
then engages in an aerial assault can
outrun a jet pack
they corner jon but a loudly barking dog
briefly interrupts them
in that split second john counter
attacks and makes his way up the
balconies
he's careful not to seriously harm his
fellow comrades how thoughtful
a ludicrous sequence takes place as jon
hitch is a ride on a
mid air he proceeds to fly across the
street and up
not one but two houses finally john gets
away
my men due to the district of columbia
free crime division i'm placing you
under arrest
go to sleep or not there's danny the
chase continues as jon enters a car
manufacturing plant
the others follow suit men brandishing a
very cool sonic weapon
close in but john manages to subdue one
and steal his gun
hell yeah that was awesome john and
danny have a little one-on-one
they trade a few blows and end up
falling down on one of the cars
mid-construction
things get too dicey for danny so he
bails leaving jon to be crushed
oh that's convenient john speeds away
with his brand spanking new car
it was built for him or rather around
him john enters the hindman estate
it's deeply entrenched in a lush garden
tentacle-like plants slash him
as he trespasses into the property he
spots a woman in a greenhouse and walks
in
but something's not right the woman
explains that he must have had a run-in
with one of her genetically altered
plants
they're poisonous she soothes him with
some tea and john asked her how someone
could fake a pre-vision
how would i know that she counters
because you invented pre-crime she
laughs at this assertion
revealing that free crime was no more
than a fluke she was developing genetic
treatments for children
and some of them three to be precise
developed clairvoyant abilities
every night they would dream of murder
it wasn't long before they realized
these murders were actually happening
she asserts that the system is perfect
and that pre-crogs are never wrong
i've never met the man i'm supposed to
kill and yet a chain of events has
started a chain that will lead you
inexorably to his murder
though they do sometimes disagree on
rare occasion
one of the precogs will envision a
slightly different version of events
an alternate future if you will these
so-called minority reports
are swept under the rug to bolster the
illusion that pre-crime is infallible
though the visions are wiped dr heinmann
left in an undeclared storage place for
them
inside the mind of the precog that
envisioned it these minority reports
most often occur
in the most gifted of the bunch the
female of course
in order to retrieve the minority report
and unsolely his name john must head
back to the pre-crime station
considering all the retinal scanners
it's going to be a hard time to say the
least
sometimes in order to see the light you
have to risk the dark
john pays a visit to a black market
surgeon dr solomon
in order to get past the retinal scans
john will be enlisting his services to
swap out his eyes
how delightful fortunately dr solomon
possesses some handy equipment
that will sterilize anything and
everything while handling the procedure
with the utmost precision
on the other end of things dany pays a
visit to john's estranged wife
lira he questions her in hopes of
sniffing out more details that could
help him
before leaving he makes some cold
comments about jon's inability to
protect their son
meanwhile dr solomon sneakily jabs jon
with some anesthetic
and gets things moving along before he
begins he jogs john's memory about their
past together
in fact they go way back john put him
away many many years ago
his crimes included setting patients on
fire and filming them
uh oh john awakens blindfolded seems the
surgery was a success
dr solomon warns john very sternly not
to take off the blindfold before 12
hours have elapsed
or he'll go blind also no scratching
things are looking good for john the
kind doctor even throws in a couple
goodies
a shot of clarity to take off the edge
any special device that when
administered
will temporarily render jon's face
unrecognizable that could come in handy
john hits the hay and with a hit of
clarity he's fast asleep he dreams about
being in a crowded public pool with sean
he's timing how long he can hold his
breath underwater when sean flips the
challenge right back at him
within moments of jon slipping under the
water sean is taken
john emerges from the water in search of
him but it's too late
sean is vanished john awakens as the
pre-crime squad encroaches
they have thermal vision and spiders
small and highly mobile autonomous
robots equipped with retinal scanners
they make their way through the desolate
building scanning residents as fletcher
announces their entry on a loud speaker
well at least the residents are used to
this kind of thing john blocks the
doorways as well as he can
but the spiders manage to find a way he
goes to the bathroom and dumps the ice
out from the cooler where his eyes were
held into a bathtub
and hops in fooling the thermal vision
the spiders enter the bathroom and
inspect closer
zapping john time is running out as
fletcher and not prepare to bust down
the door
despite being a few minutes short of the
12-hour mark john reveals one of his
eyes for scanning
it's painful but successful the search
is called off
later at the station danny is reviewing
the pre-vision for john's upcoming
murder he notices that there is in fact
a fourth person in the room but they
can't quite make out whom meanwhile
john pulls up outside the precinct and
he checks his face with the concoction
dr solomon handed him earlier
his face immediately droops down into a
saggy mess he enters a back door but
comes across a secured access point
no worries he'll just whip out his old
eyes and use them to oh crap
oh no john run fortunately he managed to
save one eye which is all he needs
now he just needs to get into the temple
as he's trying to figure that out
while he spots him and demands he leaves
jon reveals his identity to him and
tells him he likes him so he doesn't
want to have to hurt him
danny continues to review the footage
and spots a closer look of the fourth
person
oh geez that's agatha they rush down to
the temple as jon attempts to retrieve
the minority report for the leo crow
murder
instead agatha once again shows him the
drowning of anne lively danny and the
others barge in
breaking a glass window but jon is much
too quick he hops in the water with
agatha
and flushes the both of them down the
drain the pair drive off in search of
someone that can help retrieve the
minority report from agatha's mind
danny postulates as to who that could be
he looks on the backside of john's
equipment and sees that it was put
together by a man named rufus reilly we
are introduced to this man as he shows a
prospective customer around his virtual
reality pleasure paradise
let's just say he can make any of your
fantasies come true
virtually of course john shows up with
agatha and rufus shoots away the
customer who's been insisting on
virtually killing his boss
try anger management rufus initially
distraught over jon bringing all this
heat his way
decides to help him they strap back at
the up and go over the leo crow visions
while rufus records
one problem nothing is new here this is
exactly what we've already seen
where's my minority report
do i have one no damn
so the murder is real agatha proceeds to
have visions of anne lively again
this time we get awfully close to
unmasking the perpetrator but that's cut
short by the encroaching pre-crime crew
the pair is on the run again making
their way through em all agatha
inexplicably demands that jon stops to
grab an umbrella he initially refuses
but she shouts her clairvoyant abilities
appear to be awakening further as she
begins to perceive
all manner of future events
she commands him to stand in place and
wait an eternity seems to pass by as the
pair stands motionless
the crew bunches up on the second floor
and peers down but have no sight of john
and agatha
they're standing behind a man selling
balloons now that's perfect timing they
make it outside the mall and it begins
to rain
it's a good thing john got that umbrella
they easily blend into the crowd and
head out
wait a second that's the guy from the
pre-vision only 12 minutes remain
until the murder supposedly takes place
the pair enters a hotel a short distance
away
and jon persuades the front desk into
showing him the register
leo crow is checked in agatha insists
that john turns back now
stating that he still has a choice he
looks off to the side and sees the
laughing old woman from the vision
they make it up to the room 106 but
something is off
this looks different oh ok sure another
clue from the vision
john enters the correct room this time
he finds a collage of pictures laid out
on a bed
through pictures of children to his
dismay he spots what he dreads most
a picture of sean and then one with a
man next to sean
john now knows that the vision was never
a mistake he has to kill this man
the man from the picture appears from
the bathroom and john lunges at him he
throws him to the ground
and beats him demanding to know if sean
is still alive the man reveals that he
drowned him in a barrel but he was
gentle
john breaks down into tears before
preparing to take the man's life
he holds him at gunpoint while agatha
pleads with him
she's right he does have a choice john
reads the man is right and puts him
under arrest
the man is very upset if you don't go
through with this my family gets nothing
wait a second this was all a setup john
questions him further but the man
doesn't know who's behind it all
he grabs onto john's gun and after a
brief struggle pulls the trigger
the vision one way or another came true
the bullet enters the man
and sends him flying out the window dany
and the crew are on the scene
as stood as ever danny recognizes that
the orgy of evidence on the bed is too
good to be true
this evidence was planted here unlike
the others dany has actual experience
with real murder cases
he shares his findings with lamar and
suspects foul play he shows him
recording they retrieved from rufus
riley of anne lively's murder
it conflicts ever so slightly with the
visions of the other precocks arthur
and dash the surface wind on the water
is blowing in the other direction
a my new clue but a clue nonetheless
what we're in fact looking at is two
different murders in the same location
but at different times
to the precog technicians this appears
to be merely an echo
and as such is discarded someone with
intimate knowledge of
an axis ii the system could easily hide
a murder and delete all record of it
all you'd have to do is hire someone to
kill the target pre-crime would then
stop it
then you would show up and reenact the
murder after having watched the
pre-vision
very clever dany perhaps too clever
meanwhile john and agatha pull up to
lara's house she's on the phone with
lamar and tells them that they're there
oh and also not to tell danny cause she
doesn't trust that guy
i won't say a word john shares his
suspicions of foul play before coming to
the realization that this all started
with anne lively
he goes back to the house to find agatha
who is in sean's room
she shares with the grieving parents an
alternate timeline in which sean grew up
got married and generally had a happy
life but john then asked who anne lively
is and agatha reveals that it is in fact
her mother the pre-crime squad dropped
down from the air and sean is forced to
once again
so this time they catch him he's
arrested for the murders of leo crowe
and danny wittwer
john is added to gideon's collection
agatha is returned to the temple
and he devastated lara meets with lamar
prior to his press conference
they both share some thoughts about jon
before lara mentions anne lively
lamar claims to know nothing of her but
reassures lara that he'll further
investigate her drowning i never said
she drowned
he looks upon her with sinister eyes and
says he'll talk later
in private he heads off to attend the
celebratory conference on pre-crime
going national lara eyes the box of
evidence from when they took john
we cut to lara at the prison she's
holding gideon at gunpoint
i'd like a word with my husband wait how
did you get in there
oh nice back at the conference lamar is
enjoying much praise
everything's going quite swimmingly
until an emergency call comes in
hello lamar john monologues about agatha
ann and pre-crime as a whole as lara
calls in a favor from jad
back at the temple agatha is again
reliving the visions of her mother die
jad takes control of the data stream and
uploads it to the press conference
the entire audience witnesses both
visions one with the hired murderer that
was stopped
and one with the true murderer lamar the
cat is officially out of the bag
lamar leaves the room and spots john
heading out as well john tons lamar over
the phone
as they play a little game of cat and
mouse suddenly the precoc sense and
imminent murder is about to take place
lamar corners john outside and john
reminds him that he still has a choice
yes i have a choice
lamar turns the gun towards himself and
pulls the trigger
john and a now pregnant lara rekindle
their relationship while agatha and the
twins live happily ever after